src/grammars/grammars.md, before:

# Grammars

Like many parsing tools, `pest` operates using a *formal grammar* that is
distinct from your Rust code. The format that `pest` uses is called a *parsing
expression grammar*, or *PEG*. When building a project, `pest` automatically
compiles the PEG, located in a separate file, into a plain Rust function that
you can call.

## How to activate `pest`

Most projects will have at least two files that use `pest`: the parser (say,
`src/parser/mod.rs`) and the grammar (`src/parser/grammar.pest`). Assuming that
they are in the same directory:

```rust
use pest::Parser;

#[derive(Parser)]
#[grammar = "parser/grammar.pest"] // relative to project `src`
struct MyParser;
```

Whenever you compile this file, `pest` will automatically use the grammar file
to generate items like this:

```rust
pub enum Rules { /* ... */ }

impl Parser for MyParser {
    pub fn parse(Rules, &str) -> pest::Pairs { /* ... */ }
}
```

You will never see `enum Rules` or `impl Parser` as plain text! The code only
exists during compilation. However, you can use `Rules` just like any other
enum, and you can use `parse(...)` through the [`Pairs`] interface described in
the [Parser API chapter](../parser_api.html).

## Load multiple grammars

If you have multiple grammars, you can load them all at once:

```rust
use pest::Parser;

#[derive(Parser)]
#[grammar = "parser/base.pest"]
#[grammar = "parser/grammar.pest"]
struct MyParser;
```

Then `pest` will generate a `Rules` enum that contains all the rules from both.
This is useful if you have a base grammar that you want to extend in multiple grammars.

## Warning about PEGs!

Parsing expression grammars look quite similar to other parsing tools you might
be used to, like regular expressions, BNF grammars, and others (Yacc/Bison,
LALR, CFG). However, PEGs behave subtly differently: PEGs are [eager],
[non-backtracking], [ordered], and [unambiguous].

Don't be scared if you don't recognize any of the above names! You're already a
step ahead of people who do &mdash; when you use `pest`'s PEGs, you won't be
tripped up by comparisons to other tools.

If you have used other parsing tools before, be sure to read the next section
carefully. We'll mention some common mistakes regarding PEGs.

[`Pairs`]: https://docs.rs/pest/2.0/pest/iterators/struct.Pairs.html
[`include_str!`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.include_str.html
[eager]: peg.html#eagerness
[non-backtracking]: peg.html#non-backtracking
[ordered]: peg.html#ordered-choice
[unambiguous]: peg.html#unambiguous

Commit message:

Add doc for inline grammar.

src/grammars/grammars.md, after:

# Grammars

Like many parsing tools, `pest` operates using a *formal grammar* that is
distinct from your Rust code. The format that `pest` uses is called a *parsing
expression grammar*, or *PEG*. When building a project, `pest` automatically
compiles the PEG, located in a separate file, into a plain Rust function that
you can call.

## How to activate `pest`

Most projects will have at least two files that use `pest`: the parser (say,
`src/parser/mod.rs`) and the grammar (`src/parser/grammar.pest`). Assuming that
they are in the same directory:

```rust
use pest::Parser;

#[derive(Parser)]
#[grammar = "parser/grammar.pest"] // relative to project `src`
struct MyParser;
```

Whenever you compile this file, `pest` will automatically use the grammar file
to generate items like this:

```rust
pub enum Rules { /* ... */ }

impl Parser for MyParser {
    pub fn parse(Rules, &str) -> pest::Pairs { /* ... */ }
}
```

You will never see `enum Rules` or `impl Parser` as plain text! The code only
exists during compilation. However, you can use `Rules` just like any other
enum, and you can use `parse(...)` through the [`Pairs`] interface described in
the [Parser API chapter](../parser_api.html).

## Inline grammar

If you don't want to have a separate grammar file, you can use the `grammar_inline`:

```rust
use pest::Parser;

#[derive(Parser)]
#[grammar_inline = r#"
// your grammar here
a = { "a" }
"#]
struct MyParser;
```

## Load multiple grammars

If you have multiple grammars, you can load them all at once:

```rust
use pest::Parser;

#[derive(Parser)]
#[grammar = "parser/base.pest"]
#[grammar = "parser/grammar.pest"]
struct MyParser;
```

Then `pest` will generate a `Rules` enum that contains all the rules from both.
This is useful if you have a base grammar that you want to extend in multiple grammars.

## Warning about PEGs!

Parsing expression grammars look quite similar to other parsing tools you might
be used to, like regular expressions, BNF grammars, and others (Yacc/Bison,
LALR, CFG). However, PEGs behave subtly differently: PEGs are [eager],
[non-backtracking], [ordered], and [unambiguous].

Don't be scared if you don't recognize any of the above names! You're already a
step ahead of people who do &mdash; when you use `pest`'s PEGs, you won't be
tripped up by comparisons to other tools.

If you have used other parsing tools before, be sure to read the next section
carefully. We'll mention some common mistakes regarding PEGs.

[`Pairs`]: https://docs.rs/pest/2.0/pest/iterators/struct.Pairs.html
[`include_str!`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.include_str.html
[eager]: peg.html#eagerness
[non-backtracking]: peg.html#non-backtracking
[ordered]: peg.html#ordered-choice
[unambiguous]: peg.html#unambiguous
