# Parsing expression grammar

Parsing expression grammar, or PEG, is the formal grammar that *pest* uses to
describe the kind of inputs it accepts. This type of grammar is similar in
concept to regular expressions with named groups with the exception that regex
is *generative*, i.e. used to generate strings, while PEG is *analytic*, i.e.
used to test whether strings match the grammar.

## Generative vs. analytics approach

Let's take a look at a simple regex example in order to illustrate these
concepts a bit better:

```javascript
/^(a*)(a)$/
```

This regex generates a string that starts from the beginning (`^`), matches zero
or more `'a'` (`a*`), matches one `'a'` (`a`), then it makes sure it reached the
end of its input. Since this a generative definition, we can generate the string
`"aa"` by generating one `'a'` from the first group and the second `'a'` from
the second group.

If we define the same rule in pest, it will look something like this:

```
soi ~ "a"* ~ "a" ~ eoi
```

`soi` and `eoi` stand for start-of-input and end-of-input respectively and work
much like their regex counterparts. `~` is used in order to crate sequences,
while the rest of the syntax should be straightforward coming from the previous
example.

Part of the analytical approach of PEGs is the fact that they run eagerly. If we
take the example generated by the regex, the PEG variant will eagerly match both
`a`s in the `"a"*` expression, leaving the second `"a"` unsatisfied. Every
expression in PEG tries to match as much as it possibly can. And, once it
matched, it will not backtrack in order to satisfy the next expression. At
first, this may seem like a bit of a hindrance, but it offer something else in
exchange.

## Non-ambiguity

If a string is accepted by a PEG grammar, it is guaranteed to be matched in one
single manner. Let's take the following regex example in order to illustrate
this:

```javascript
/(a*)(a*)/
```

The string `"aaaa"` has, theoretically, 5 different ways of being accepted in
terms of how the groups are split, namely `("aaaa")()`, `("aaa")("a")`,
`("aa")("aa")`, `("a")("aaa")`, and `()("aaaa")`. The only way the equivalent
PEG grammar can match this is by eagerly matching the whole string in the first
expression `("aaaa")()`.

## Choice order

In order to keep the promise of non-ambiguity, choice expressions have to be run
in a predefined order, from right to left. This has an relevant implication when
rules have overlapping beginnings. Take the following example:

```
("a" | "ab") ~ eoi
```

This may look perfectly correct, but is in fact incapable of accepting the
string `"ab"`, since the first choice will match `"a"`, leaving `"b"` at the
hand of the `eoi` rule which will then fail. And, since there is no way to match
`"ab"`, it can be simplified to simply `"a" ~ eoi`. If, however, we do want to
match both, we have to make sure that the longer expression comes first:

```
("ab" | "a") ~ eoi
```

This way, `"ab"` will get matched by the first expression, while `"a"` will fail
it, making way for the second one to match.

## Left-recursion

Because of their eager nature, PEGs will always start exploring possible paths
from the left. This means that, if a rules gets to run itself before making any
kind of progress, it will result in a stack-overflow. The following examples all
fail to compile:

```
// Rule calls itself right away.
rule = { rule }

// Rule makes no progress before calling itself. (since "" always matches)
rule = { "" ~ rule }

// Rules indirectly left-recurse.
rule_a = { rule_b }
rule_b = { rule_a }

// Rule still causes a stack-overflow for any other input than "a".
rule = { "a" | rule }
```

All left-recursion use cases can be rewritten in PEG using repetition or layers
of indirection, as will be seen in later chapters.
